hello i'm keith kendrick i'm the editor
of bbc good food magazine and i'm joined
today by barney des mazzeri
who's a sourdough guru on our on our
brand i've invited him along today
to give us three things that you our
audience can take away
from his sourdough master class so
barney what's the first thing that
that readers are going to are going to
learn
um the thing that people are really
going to get from this i mean
it is really all-encompassing so you
know if you're
if you're an apprehensive beginner
you've heard about sourdough you haven't
given it a chance you haven't tried it
yourself
yet um i think lockdown at number two is
going to be the
the ideal time to do it i mean you know
it can be quite a
confusing thing because there's lots of
terminology but it really
isn't that hard so the great thing about
our webinar is that even if you're an
apprehensive beginner
or you're a um you're someone who with a
sourdough experience it just needs to
ask that what's some questions answered
it's all there for you so whereas a
normal sort of video tutorial you just
get what uh
what what's being told to you with our
sourdough q
with our sound our webinar there's
actually a q a at the end
so any questions you have you've got my
expertise to
to to pick out to um and to question and
hopefully i'll be able to answer your
your questions and your queries
yeah i mean i took up sourdough uh
baking
inspired by you and by the webinar when
you when you did it in summer
and learned a heck of a lot but there
are uh there are problems along the way
aren't they and i suppose a lot of those
questions are going to be
you know i've gone wrong at this stage
or i kind of haven't got that stage
quite right
so what are some of the common problems
that uh that you've encountered and
and and people are going to be able to
uh to learn how to tackle them
so when i originally was asked or
commissioned
to make some uh sound content for good
food i knew having
having kind of approached it myself i
knew there was a lot of conflicting
information out there
plus a lot of people just assumed that
um
that someone's knowledge was already
there
and that they had the the ability to
work with what
uh what's known as a high hydration dose
so a very very wet dough
and it was my i took it on my myself or
i made it my mission to try and really
um uncomplicate it as much as possible
i wanted to make create a
one-size-fits-all recipe because
essentially
it's nothing more than flour water and
salt and there's no reason why it should
be complicated
and so i'd say the most common problems
people have
are um a starter that won't i've started
it doesn't become activated that's the
first thing
which we cover and then um dough that's
too wet and sticky
so i think where people go wrong is that
they get lots of information from lots
of different places
i'm not saying other people's
information isn't right but you're
better off sticking to one school of
sourdough than you are trying to pull
bits of information from different
places and apply them all
but i can really say hand on heart
because we've seen so many amazing
results
but if you follow the good food method
to to making sourdough which is the
the recipe that's on our website the the
um
the guide that we the guide that we
created when we first went into lockdown
with the with the may issue bbc good
food
if you follow that to the letter it will
work yeah i
and yeah and i'm proof that it does and
what's also got
me about it i mean you know we're all
tightening our belts at the moment it's
how
cheap it is to make a sourdough loaf it
works out about 50 pence a loaf
it's an incredible it's an incredible
thing will we also learn how to take our
our sourdough lobes to the next level as
well one of our
famous franchises in the magazine i've
gone really big on on the decoration
because i think
part part of the beauty sourdough is the
sharing as well i mean
nothing you know i i was a chef in
michelin-starred restaurants i cooked a
lot of food
but nothing i never get more of a sense
of pride than
when i when i when you know when this
beautiful loaf of bread comes out
comes out of the oven and it really is
something that people want to shout
about they want to put on instagram they
want to share on social media
so i am going really big on how to score
on how to get those on how to get those
uh i had to get a beautiful decoration
but we also eat with our eyes you said
sourdough is delicious
it's also more digestible than than
commercial bread it's a lovely thing to
make but it's also something we want to
make sure
that looks beautiful and that's
something that that that is taking it to
the next level that's something we've
really covered in the webinar
well i'm sure it will be a sellout it
was incredibly popular
uh last time in the summer and uh for
anybody who wants to uh to sign up to
barney's webinar uh tickets to 10 pounds
and you can
find the details on the bbc goodfood.com
website uh barney thanks as always
thanks for the
sourdough inspiration um what one of you
one of the the
tips you taught me is that you can you
don't have to make a loaf every day you
can keep your starter in the fridge
for a week and then just reactivate it
you know over overnight and it's a
that's a great tip because then you can
have it when you fancy it rather than
because you have to have it
so the thing i always tell people that
are just starting out as well
is that even the bad grade's good i mean
you know it might not always be perfect
and you there's a bit of learning to do
but it you you
you still end up with something that's
delicious yeah it really is
thank you very much barney hope to see
you soon nice to see you
take care